Part 1:
Write a simple simulation program for a single-cage elevator in a 5-story building (with a ground floor).  The elevator should respond to both external and internal calls, in a "reasonable" way which matches your experience.  No special background knowledge is assumed about Descrete Event Simulation or elevators.

Simulation runs are generated by allowing calls to occur randomly.  The elevator state can be taken to be the floor at which the the cage is currently located, together with the current pattern of unserviced calls and such other information that you deem relevant.  Cage transitions between adjacent floors can be assumed instantaneous.

The display may be quite simpl, say in the form of a table, as shown.  Here the cage is at Floor-3, and there are unserviced calls to Floors 1 and 5 that have originated inside the cage, along with external up-calls at Floors 0, 1, 4 and down-calls at Floors 2, 4.

Floor   Location  In-call   Ext-call-up  Ext-call-down
 5                  x
 4                              x           x
 3         x
 2                                          x
 1                  x           x
 0                              x

In the presence of unserviced calls the cage location should change by one level at each stage, following which new x's in the calls columns may appear and old ones disappear.  No new x's are allowed in the current location.

Include a brief description of your approach and your control logic.



Part 2:
Develop an automaton model of the system in Part 1, including a complete specification of the state set and transition structure.  For instance, the state set could take the form

Q = F x H x (U0 x ... x U4) x (D1 x ... x D5) x (I0 x ... x I5)

Where
  F = {0,1,2,3,4,5} is the floor set,
  H = {up, rest, down} is the cage heading set, and
  Ui, Di, Ii represent 2-state switches ('buttons') with state sets {set,reset} for external-up-calls, external-down-calls and inside-cage-calls.  Thus ui = set in Ui indicates the presence of an external-up-call at floor i; ui will be switched back to reset when the call is serviced.  The state size is |Q| = 6 x 3 x 2^5 x 2^5 x 2^6 = 1179648.  Write f in F for the current floor, h in H for the current heading, u, d, i for the button vectors (thus u = (u0,u1,u2,u3,u4) in U0xU1xU2xU3xU4), and calls = (u,d,i).  Then

  h_next = delta_H((calls)_next, f, h)
  f_next = delta_F(h_next, f)

for suitable functions delta_H, delta_F.  Define calls_next as a suitable (in part, random) function of the current values (calls, f, h) so the computation sequence is

  (calls, f, h) => calls_next
  (calls_next, f, h) => h_next
  (h_next, f) => f_next


Part 3:
Check systematically that your simulation code from Part 1 is an implementation of your automaton model in Part 2.  If the automaton model were developed first, would it be helpful in writing the code?

Part 4:
Discuss possible performance specifications for your elevator.  Sketch a proof that your automaton model satisfies them.

Every call is eventually serviced.
Every call is serviced in less than 2*|F| transitions.


  , down} is the cage heading set,

